Watch this boxing match!
…. This is not new!
Way back in the ’70s, Muhammad Ali had perfected
it.
It is called the Rope A Dope technique.
Look at the cockiness he demonstrates when
he adopts this strategy.
He is going to… taunt!
“I dare you to hit me!”
And, see what he does now!
Taunting!
What is the technique here?
It is the same technique that Rocky uses in
his movie.
Sylvester Stallone will TIRE the opponent
by allowing him to punch him.
“Hit me!
I will take it all, and then, when you are
tired hitting me, I will look for the right
opportunity and give you the knockout punch!”
That is what we are going to explore today.
Resilience.
To take it all, and bounce back.
Namasthe!
Four Hundred and Forty Four is about Resilience.
To come back…
Long long ago, around the late sixties, .. World
War Two had ended, the Cold War was in its
worst phase, and each country was desperate
to pile nuclear weapons.
They could already destroy the whole world..
They could destroy it four times over.
But, they would still be piling it sky high.
Adding weapons.
When asked why they were doing it, this is
what the premieres of each of those top countries
— USA, UK, Russia — said: We need second
strike capability.
What is this Second Strike Capability?
Well, if you have hit me first, I need to
withstand it completely, even if weapon armouries
are destroyed, even if my most populated zones
are decimated, even then, before I am completely
dead, I need to have enough firepower to ensure
you are dead too!
Sounds sick even to just listen to it.. but,
this was the reason they kept piling up.
Mutually Assured Destruction.
MAD.
You are dead.
I am dead too.
Doesn’t matter at all who pressed the “Big
Red Button” first.
That is Second Strike Capability.
See, this guy hits back too!
We can think about it a bit more, and extract
something good too, out of this.
Yes, Second Strike Capability was for mutually
assured destruction, but it is a good lesson
for us.
Like the Rope-A-Dope technique by Muhammad
Ali, how to take it all, and bounce back!
Even the internet, the decentralised network
of networks, was born because of a need like
this one.
Nobody knows where the center of the internet
is and hence nobody can destroy the internet
with one carefully placed large explosive.
And, that is why we are able to Facetime,
send messages, do Whatsapp calls.
Winston Churchill is supposed to have given
us a beautiful definition for success.
It is nothing else..
It is just “going from failure to failure
without loss of enthusiasm”.
Without losing any enthusiasm, go on to the
next failure, he said.
Nice to hear.. but, a small correction is
needed here.
You can’t do the same thing and expect a
different result.
You have to do something different.
Yes, failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm
is important, but, something has to be done
differently.
If the PLAN doesn’t work, change the PLAN.
Don’t change the goal!
Keep the ultimate aim the same, fixed firmly.
But, the approach, the journey, can be flexible,
adaptable.
That was a good suggestion.
I came across a concept called the Chaos Monkey
recently.
It is supposed to be a beautiful piece of
software used at Netflix.
It really thrilled me to bits.
What is the chaos monkey?
These are the servers that power Netflix and
Disney Hotstar.
Left and right, hundreds of servers, responding
to your every request, streaming movies to
you on demand.
The Chaos Monkey is a piece of software.
What does it do?
It simulates two monkeys.
What do those monkeys do?
They are mischievous.
They will just randomly go and unplug servers.
They will short servers.
They will ensure some random server fails
every one hour.
What a challenge?!
Why do you think Netflix instituted the Chaos
Monkey?
It is available, open source.
You can do it for your own service.
If yours is as popular and as probably failure-prone
because it is so large as Netflix.
“Anyway, some server, somewhere, once in
two days, burns out.
Goes offline.
We struggle.
We suffer a lot.
Because, we are in ‘reactive’ mode.
Once something happens, we rush in to fix
it, an urgent emergency.
Instead, even before it really happens, what
if I simulate it myself?”
So, today, you wouldn’t even know if some
server has failed.
Because the Chaos Monkey creates enough trouble
that the software engineers at Netflix have
ensured that even past that Chaos Monkey,
work gets done.
Files get served.
Redundancy takes care of resilience.
Isn’t that beautiful?
There is a book called Forever Skills.
I sincerely beg you not to read the book,
because we are going to touch upon parts of
the book very soon.
But, this book’s intent is: Dear Friend,
the world IS changing!
The world HAS to change in some aspects.
And, in some aspects, there won’t be ANY
CHANGE AT ALL.
In such a change-prone world, what are the
skills that will be useful for me forever?!
She talks about twelve such skills, we will
come to them.
But, one of them is resilience.
Resilience is the ability to bounce back,
the ability to take it all, and say, “Enough
is enough”, and put your arm forward and
say, “Now I am going to re…do things”.
RE.
That is the key!
She talks about SIX DIFFERENT REs..!
And, this is what we are going to do!
We are going to look at the Ramayana.
That amazing Epic.
The Adi Kavya.
And, we are going to try making a connection
between that story and these six words.
Let’s get started.
The first RE is REwork.
You put in an effort.
That didn’t bring the result you wanted.
You try again.
You try again and again.
Like Winston Churchill’s exhortation, failure
to failure without losing enthusiasm.
That is what Rama does, early in the middle
part of Ramayana.
Seetha is gone, he has no idea where she is,
and, he keeps shouting, Seetha, Seetha,..
the sound echoes through the mountains.
In fact, Valmiki says, every leaf cried..
Hearing the plaintive voice of Rama.
He is a great man.
A veritable Avatar.
But, he hasn’t realised it.
He is acting human.
And, he is reworking.
Doing the same thing over and over again.
Not enough.
What is the second RE?
The second RE is REgroup.
When you are faced with something, and you
are not able to proceed any further, you need
to look at your forces, probably regroup.
And, that is what Rama does, far away from
his kingdom.
He is in exile.
He can’t call for support resources.
Backup.
So, the squirrels in the neighbourhood, the
birds, the monkeys, the bears, he regroups.
What is the third RE?
The third RE is REframe.
When you can’t solve a problem, when the
problem seems insurmountable, smart people
probably start thinking, “Hey, we should
redefine the problem.
We should reframe the problem.
We can’t solve this problem holding on to
this world view.
We should move it to another frame of reference.
Hanuman is leaping across the ocean towards
Lanka.
On the way, the Snake Goddess, mother of all
snakes, Surasa, obstructs him and says, “Sorry,
you have to pass through my mouth”.
So, what does Hanuman do?
Hanuman says, “I am larger.
I am much larger than you think.”
And he starts expanding his size.
Surasa starts expanding too.
And, more, more, more, more, inflation on
both sides.
At one splitsecond, Hanuman becomes microscopic,
goes into the mouth, and flies out back again,
and says, “Dear Madam, all you expected
of me was to ‘pass’ through your mouth.
You didn’t ban me from coming out of the
same mouth.
So, I have reframed the problem, and I have
succeeded in resolving it.
Tata, byebye, I will be on my way!”
REframe.
REward!
Remember “Start with Why”?
Senior managers and leaders look at the journey
as the reward.
So, they don’t need any boosts along the
way.
But, is it true for everybody?
That girl joined the workforce just yesterday.
To give motivation to her.. the end point
might be too far away.
She may not have the stamina to last it.
So, you need to give, at least once in a while,
rewards along the journey.
It is keeping that in mind that Hanuman, on
his way back to Rama after meeting Seetha
and burning Lanka, when he is rallying all
the Vanaras to return to Rama with the good
news, at that moment, he discusses with the
senior folk and says, “Let us not just go
directly to Rama.
Let us ensure that these Vanaras get a little
play time..”
And that is how, at Madhuvan, Sugreeva’s
exclusive special private orchard with the
choicest fruits and flowers and honey, where
no Vanara had been allowed in till that day,
the Vanaras, happy of their discovery of Seetha,
wreak havoc.
There is bedlam!
Dadhimukhan, the guard Vanara, apologises
to Sugreeva that he tried his best, but couldn’t
protect the orchard from the marauding Vanaras.
That is when it strikes Rama and Lakshmana.
If the Vanaras are behaving with such temerity,
… probably they have achieved what they
wanted to.
Probably they are coming with good news, he
says.
So, that, is Reward.
What is the fifth RE?
The fifth RE is REinforce.
Particularly, reinforce so that in one effort,
the enemy goes weaker and you get stronger.
During Vibheeshana Sharanagathi, Ravana loses
an ally, and Rama gains a friend.
This is a very important moment.
“I am sorry my brother is behaving like
this.
I would like to become part of your army”,
says Vibheeshana.
Rama accepts the offer.
So, talking about resilience, you also need
to reinforce, before trying once again.
What is the sixth RE?
The sixth RE is REthink.
You have tried everything.
Reinforce.
Reframe.
Rework.
Everything.
But, nothing seems to be working.
In that case, you probably have to stop doing,
and start THINKING.
That is what Rama does, when, repeatedly,
he chops off one head after the other, of
Ravana.
As he chops off, they seem to regrow.
He doesn’t know what to do.
He is on the verge of giving up.
He takes pause, and starts wondering what
to do.
I think that is when the Aditya Hridayam Stotram
is given to Rama.
And, at that moment, Vibheeshana comes around
to tell Rama, “Dear Sire, he has a special
power source.
A battery.
A spare battery.
An Amrita Nectar Pot in the navel region.
That is where you need to point your arrow.
That is his hidden power source.”
So, this rethinking.. stopping what you are
doing, wondering what else to do, is ALSO
important.
As a closing thought, I wondered if we could
take a nice and cute lesson from Physics.
A philosophical lesson from the world of physics.
We have encountered thermodynamics some time
at school.
Entropy.
The most important lesson we learn there is,
if you drop a ball, this is how it will bounce….
Why?
Because, air friction, heat transferred to
the ground, when bouncing molecules crashing
against each other, rubbing, friction, heat
again.
All of this, where does it come from?
This energy comes from the potential energy
locked up in the height of the bounce.
And so, the reduction in height.
Which is why it cannot bounce back to the
same height.
This is one of the unbreakable laws in thermodynamics.
Which means, you cannot bounce a ball like
this!
Even if you bounce a so-called magic-ball,
it will start attenuating after a few bounces.
While looking at this, I was wondering..
Hey, do you know what you need to do, to be
perfectly resilient?
Instead of dying out like the first ball,
if you want to continue resiliently like the
second ball?
Thermodynamics!
Friction..
Loss of heat.
You know what you have to do?!
You have to KEEP YOUR COOL!
If only the ball decides, “I will remain
at the same temperature, I will not dissipate
heat to others..”, the ball can KEEP bouncing!
That’s it for today.
See you soon, on the 20th of Jan!
Thank you!